Add exporter guide (#575)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js: doc/exporter-guide.md

# Exporter Developer Guide

> An exporter sends traces and metrics to any backend that is capable of consuming them. The exporter itself can change without requiring a change in your client code.

Reviewer: What about the exporter changes? Does this mean you can change which exporter you are using or that the exporter itself might change? As a user, the wording "the exporter can change" makes me a little uncomfortable.
```suggestion
An exporter sends traces and metrics to any backend that is capable of consuming them. With OpenTelemetry, you can easily add and remove any exporter without requiring changes to your application code.
```

> OpenTelemetry exporters can be contributed by anyone, and we provide support for several open source backends and vendors out-of-the-box, example Zipkin, Jaeger, Prometheus. This document will provide a means for developers to create their own. We strongly recommended to create a dedicated package for newly added exporter, example: `@opentelemetry/exporter-myexporter`.

Reviewer: > We strongly recommended to create a dedicated package for newly added exporter, example: `@opentelemetry/exporter-myexporter`.

I would remove this sentence. It implies that any user can create a package under the `@opentelemetry` namespace. If a user is creating their own exporter outside of our official packages (vendor specific, some custom functionality) then we do not care what their name is. If they are creating one in our repo, then the package name is part of the process from the start and will follow conventions we have already established.

Also a couple minor grammar tweaks

```suggestion
We provide support for several open source backends and vendors out-of-the-box like Zipkin, Jaeger, and Prometheus, but OpenTelemetry exporters follow a public interface can be implemented by anyone. This document describes the process for developers to create their own exporter if the provided ones do not meet their needs.
```

## Tracing

> `SpanExporter` defines the interface that protocol-specific exporters must implement so that they can be plugged into OpenTelemetry SDK and support sending of spans data. Exporters should expect to receive only sampled-in ended spans. Exporters must not throw. Exporters should not modify spans they receive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SpanExporter` interface defines which methods the protocol-specific trace/span exporters must implement so that they can be plugged into OpenTelemetry SDK. Span exporters must follow these rules:

1. Implement the `SpanExporter` interface.
2. Expect to only receive spans which have been sampled.
3. Expect to only receive spans which are ended.
4. Do not throw exceptions.
5. Do not modify received spans.
6. Do not implement queueing or batching logic because this is handled by Span Processors.
```

> Each exporter must implement `SpanExporter`, which contain `export` and `shutdown` methods:

Reviewer: If you implement my above suggestion, this sentence should be changed as it becomes redundant.

```suggestion
The current `SpanExporter` interface (`0.2.0`) contains 2 methods:
```

> - `export`: Exports a batch of telemetry data. In this method you’ll process and translate `ReadableSpan` Data into the data that your trace backend accepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `export`: Exports a batch of spans. In this method, you’ll process and translate `ReadableSpan` Data into the data that your trace backend accepts, and send them to your tracing backend.
```

- `shutdown`: Shuts down the exporter. This is an opportunity for exporter to do any cleanup required. `Shutdown` should be called only once for each Exporter instance. After the call to `Shutdown` subsequent calls to Export are not allowed and should return `FailedNotRetryable` error.

> A typical package layout:

Reviewer: The package layout applies to both types of exporters. Maybe it should be moved above the Tracing heading?

```
opentelemetry-exporter-myexporter
   ├── src
   │   └── index.ts
   │   └── transform.ts
   │   └── types.ts
   │   └── myexporter.ts
   └── test
       └── transform.test.ts
       └── myexporter.test.ts
```

> The queuing or batching functionalities are not needed to implemented by the exporter, it is being taken care by the `BatchSpanProcessor`.

Reviewer: If you implement my above suggestion, this sentence is not needed.

Please refer to the [Zipkin Exporter][zipkin-exporter] or [Jaeger Exporter][jaeger-exporter] for more comprehensive examples.

## Metrics

`MetricExporter` defines the interface that protocol-specific exporters must implement so that they can be plugged into OpenTelemetry SDK and support sending of metrics data.

> Each exporter must implement `MetricExporter`, which contain `export` and `shutdown` methods:

Reviewer: ```markdown
`MetricExporter` defines the interface that protocol-specific exporters must implement so that they can be plugged into OpenTelemetry SDK and support sending of metrics data. The current `MetricExporter` interface (`0.2.0`) defines 2 methods:
```

> - `export`: Exports a batch of telemetry data. In this method you’ll process and translate `ReadableMetric` Data into the data that your trace backend accepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `export`: Exports a batch of telemetry data. In this method you’ll process and translate `ReadableMetric` Data into the data that your metric backend accepts.
```

# Exporter Developer Guide

An exporter sends traces and metrics to any backend that is capable of consuming them. With OpenTelemetry, you can easily add and remove any exporter without requiring changes to your application code.

> We provide support for several open source backends and vendors out-of-the-box like Zipkin, Jaeger, and Prometheus, but OpenTelemetry exporters follow a public interface can be implemented by anyone. This document describes the process for developers to create their own exporter if the provided ones do not meet their needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide support for several open source backends and vendors out-of-the-box like Zipkin, Jaeger, and Prometheus, but OpenTelemetry exporters follow a public interface which can be implemented by anyone. This document describes the process for developers to create their own exporter if the provided ones do not meet their needs.
```
